[Music]
made from silver with a weight of about
four pounds and created around the 15th
century the vase looked like nothing
special if you saw it somewhere in an
antique store you'd hardly give it a
second glance and still for such an
inconspicuous object the Bassano vase
supposedly carries a horrible curse the
vase itself is a paradox
even though numerous websites listed as
one of the most haunted objects in
history people know almost nothing about
the vase itself or its whereabouts
however there is something that is known
the first mention of the vase goes back
to the 15th century legend has it that
this piece of art was crafted in a small
Italian town to the north of Napoli it
was supposed to be a wedding gift for a
beautiful young bride delivered to her
anonymously the night before the wedding
the woman believed it was a sign of good
luck but the vase turned out to be quite
the opposite the bride never appeared at
her own wedding
she was found lying on the floor in her
room dead the vase clutched tightly in
her cold hands her untimely demise was
never explained and that's how an
inexplicable chain of tragic events got
started not long after the incident with
the bride another family member got hold
of the Bassano vase unfortunately that
person didn't have much time to enjoy
the exquisite silver jar because they
passed away shortly afterwards the vase
was given to yet another relative but
the shocking outcome didn't change loss
struck this unfortunate family once
again so it's no wonder they came to
believe that the reason for all these
tragic occurrences was the one thing
they all had in come
the vase it had to be cursed to prevent
any more misfortune whether to
themselves or any other poor soul in the
future the family decided to hide the
Bassano vase away and that's where the
story gets even more puzzling because
apparently nobody knows for sure how
when or where the vase was hidden
according to some records an enigmatic
priest was the one to lock the artifact
away other people believed that the
family simply buried the vase and tried
to forget about this nightmare I guess
we'll never know how exactly it went
down since nothing was heard about the
vase for several centuries that is until
one fateful day in 1988 when the cursed
object reared its ugly head again
bringing along its familiar friends
mystery and tragedy there's no specific
location or even name but it said that a
young man dug the vase up in his
backyard the details of this discovery
vary from story to story but they say
that when he picked up the silver jar
there was a grim note warning beware
this vase brings death little did the
man know that these were not just empty
threats he ignored them completely and
decided to sell the treasure at an
auction I guess he needed money more
than he feared the old cryptic
prophecies anyway the vase sold quickly
at a price of 4 million italian lira
which equalled approximately $3,000 at
the time its new owner was a pharmacist
who at the moment of purchase
believed that he was a very lucky man to
get such a fine piece of art for a
relatively modest sum but the mysterious
curse had already found its next victim
only three months later the pharmacist
fell to some mysterious ailment
his relatives sold the vase to another
unsuspecting art lover this time a young
doctor whose fate was just the same the
next owner of the Bassano vase was an
archaeologist who bought it
enthusiastically in hopes of adding it
to his vast collection of precious
artifacts only a mysterious illness a
mere three months later would have him
joining the morbid ranks of the young
15th century bride her unfortunate
relatives the pharmacist and the doctor
and the horrific story just goes on the
vase continued to change hands leaving a
seemingly endless trail of death in its
way it's unclear how many more lives the
vase claimed but one sail seemed to put
an end to it all at first things went as
usual the new owner succumbed to some
quick and mysterious illness after
coming into possession of the vase but
this time their family didn't sell it
it's horrifying reputation had finally
come to light and no one wanted to risk
their life to obtain something that
dangerous seemed like a repetition of
the story with the bride but here's
where it takes an unexpected turn the
last victims relative was so eager to
get rid of the vase and break the curse
that they just chucked the thing out the
window so it shattered on the ground and
the curse was broken forever
right oh you should know better by now
plus it was made of silver mind you sure
the family didn't have any more losses
but the vase almost hit a police officer
on the head as it flew from the window
the man picked it up and entered the
house to return it to the family and
issue a fine for littering the family
happily paid the fine but refused to
take their litter back so the police did
what any one else would they offered it
to a museum but the vases reputation was
already well-known so no museum would
take
imagine this is a 15th century artifact
full of history and yeah mysterious
tragedy that could pull in all kinds of
curious tourists and really add to any
museum's vast collection of ancient
trinkets and exhibits yet no institution
wanted anything to do with it in any
case after museums refused to take the
vase it said that the police got rid of
it but again
opinions differ and the details are
unclear some people are sure that one
police officer buried the cursed jar
having locked it in a let box in some
remote location others state that the
vase was hidden in a cemetery and that
seems to be the end of this evil vase
but besides tragedy the Bassano vase
also left tons of unanswered questions
in its way which kind of makes the whole
legend a little questionable first of
all it's nearly impossible to identify
all the people involved or verify the
exact locations to add to that there's
only one photo of the cursed object
despite all the different people and
tales connected to it even now many
sources mentioned the Bassano vase among
the most famous cursed objects if it's
so famous and had managed to scare so
many people and even museums why are the
details so fuzzy any sources you find
have the same vague descriptions of the
bride the anonymous 1988 man pharmacists
doctor archeologist police officer all
unnamed the design of the vase itself
doesn't really match with its origin
story either it has a rather plain
design which wasn't the style back in
the 15th century vases of that time were
mostly porcelain colorful and adorned
with all kinds of intricate details
besides the style and shape of the
silver jar seriously differ from those
that were widespread during the
Renaissance
like any other vase of the period the
artifact doesn't have a flat bottom it
looks more like a bottle vase with a
wide opening pottery qualities that were
neither Italian nor 15th century and
finally how exactly did this curse work
it obviously wasn't anyone who simply
touched the vase remember the man who
found it and sold it in 1988 the police
officer who tried to return it to the
family that just threw it out the window
it seemed to be just those who called it
their own did the curse know when a
person officially owned it there is one
theory that the curse was activated
whenever the top was open but again
that's unverifiable plus the one and
only photo of the vase doesn't show a
top that opens and close I'll be at the
picture is blurry and it's hard to tell
for sure it's obvious that there is much
more to the Bassano vase than the
stories tell us it's inexplicable origin
and untimely demise of those who only
object look like something of either
sheer coincidence or pure legend but
researchers do take the whole ordeal
seriously enough to investigate and try
to find more information about the
perplexing artifact but until then it
seems the Bassano vase still remains an
unsolved mystery that leaves us with
more questions than answers or perhaps
the Bassano vase was simply a crock of
something else do you believe that the
Bassano vase was cursed let me know down
in the comments if you learn something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend but hey hey
hey don't go anywhere just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life